hello guys and welcome to my channel
it's GMAT time today and we're going to
talk about TMS verbal part and you know
I've taken GMAT some time ago and escort
700 out of 800 with just two months of
preparation these are very very intense
two months but I just wanted to share
some methods with you that I used for
the verbal part and I would say that
verbal part is something that you can
really master like I mean if you spend
three to four hours a day just
practicing your verbal part there is a
huge chance that you would do zero
mistakes and some bars like sentence
correction for example because they are
really really easy to handle if they
have a specific pattern that you can
just learn and apply to every single
sentence so I'm going to guide you
through this verbal section and I'm
going to give you some tips that I've
used now the first thing is filling to
remember is that when you're trying to
take GMAT you need to make sure that
your English is upper intermediate or
advanced if you're not an English native
speaker so if your English is not
advanced yet I would suggest is taking
some generating with classics or go
interning with speaking country and
immersing yourself into language but if
your English is upper intermediate or
advanced then you shouldn't have a lot
of problems with the verbal part the
verbal part takes 75 minutes and
consists of 41 questions and the
trickiest thing is that it's actually
the last byte that you taking GMAT so
before your verbal slide you've already
had this analytical section and
quantitative section and this is like a
third and fourth hour in the test and
you'd be super stressed so it's really
important that you take as many practice
tests home as you can because you bring
need to really live in that situation
she's taking this exam for four hours
always with a small break so get
yourself adjusted to that so there are
three types of questions in the GMAT
verbal section one is reading
comprehension and other one is sentence
correction and the third is critical
reasoning and I'm going to pay more
attention to sentence correction because
as I said this is the part thing you can
really really master and I did the same
so the trick here is that in sentence
correction they would give you a super
long sentence with a lot of additional
with a lot of details they don't really
need and there would be some basic
sometimes basic sometimes not there
basic will be an easy grammar mistake
that you would notice straightaway if
they wouldn't use this complicated
structure so what you need to do is try
to eliminate those parts that you don't
really need and look at the sentence as
if it was like the simplest sentence in
the world so let me give you an example
if you watch some of my videos I used to
prep for GMAT app for my preparation and
this is basically an app that helped me
score 700 because I haven't made any
mistakes in sentence correction quite
because I was practicing like all I
spend all my time in this a practicing
sentence correction so here's an example
the observations garnered from two
independent research studies corroborate
the theory that crows have a tremendous
intellectual capacity the studies show
crows are capable of understanding basic
causal relationships and capacity that
puts them on the same level as a human
seven-year-old and to create
independently their own tools now the
first thing you need to remember is that
there are five different answers like
variations of answers and the first
answer would be the same as an example
giving it given in the sentence so don't
bother reading it now let's look at the
underlying sentence so here you see
curls as capable of understanding basic
social relationships so our industry
starter sentence as capable of
understanding right and if we cut out
all of the words then the second thing
that capable of is creating so huge of
understanding and to create immediately
you see that we have two verbs in
different forms and the right way to do
is crows as capable of understanding and
creating independently and then we just
scroll through the answers and the only
right answer is e that crows are capable
of understanding basic causal
relationships a capacity that puts them
on the same level as a human
seven-year-old and independently
creating you see now the
herbs are in the same position so that
was an example of a sentence correction
basically you can do the same with every
sentence just trying to eliminate the
words they using to confuse you and
practice would make you perfect
so with this app what I did like I was
traveling to different cities and I was
spending a lot of time with Glade so
what you can do with this app you can
just start your breakfast test right
away you can choose the amount of
questions that you want to have if you
traveling I would suggest like if you
don't have a piece of paper I would
suggest is just taking verbal parts but
if you're sitting with probably sitting
down in your class or in your cabinet
take both verbal and one and if you have
like half an hour you can pay 16
questions two minutes each and go
through them and practice and that's the
best way you can spend your time while
waiting for something and you know
you're using every single minute to get
ready for your team at another tip from
me is don't really trust your ear like
this grammar and this sentence
correction is still really mathematical
because it is all structured as you've
seen like to work in different forms and
you notice that straightaway when you
eliminate all of the words that are
unnecessary for understanding the
sentence so it's all really about being
attentive and paying attention to detail
and and if you think that something
sounds right for you please double check
sometimes it works in terms of dozens
because some grammar things I used in
our daily life in an incorrect way and
this may sound good to you
but dramatically it won't be correct
with my short piece of advice on
sentence correction in verbal part if
you have any suggestions so what you
want to hear from me on the topic of
GMAT or getting admitted to foreign
American whatever other universities
please write your suggestions down in
comments below and I also have this
video about overall GMAT preparation I
will also leave a link below and don't
forget until this amazing app that has
me beat the sentence correction part I
hope you guys like this video if you did
please don't forget to
like and subscribe to this channel and I
hope to see you all in the next eight
years have a great day bye